Hi and welcome to this video on Python optimizations in turning Python optimizations we'll cover in
a few videos and this one is going to focus on interning of integers in particular.
And what interning is.
So one important note is that a lot of what we discussed with memory management and garbage collection
and what we're going to discuss now optimizations and memory footprints are really specific to the Python
implementations you're using now in this cause we're using C Python which is kind of the standard the
reference Python implementation which is written in C.
Hence the name C Python.
But that's kind of the version of Python.
However there are many other versions of Python that exist.
For example Python is written in Java and it can import and use any Java classes.
And in fact it even compiles to Java bytecode and so it then runs in a job a virtual machine.
You also have in Python.
The Python is written in C Sharp and it targets the dot net allows all the Masiello you also have pie
pie.
Now that one's interesting.
It's a python interpreter written in Python.
So and it uses a specific version of Python it doesn't use C Python.
It uses Python.
Python is a subset.
It's a statically typed subset of Python that is written in C but that is specifically built to build
interpreters.
In particular Python for example.
So let's pipe out and there are many others.
And if you're interested in that you can take a look at that your L that's down here in that link and
you'll see that there are many other Python implementations as well.
But for those schools and certainly for the purposes of these discussions I'm referring to see Python
now the version of C Python also makes a difference.
OK.
Now in this version in this course I'm using version 3.6.
And so depending on what you are using your results may be slightly different.
OK.
So earlier we saw that if we wrote that code but Python code equals 10 be equals 10 then a was a reference
pointer to some object in memory.
Integer value of 10 but B was also assigned the same memory address.
So Python automatically created a shared reference for us.
But look at this.
If we write equals 500 and B equals 500 then eight points to this object in memory.
But Python doesn't create a shared reference in this case it points b to a new object at a different
memory address
so it would be safe to create the shared reference because integers are immutable but it doesn't.
So what's going on.
Well it's something called interning and interning basically is reusing objects on demand.
So at start up see Python pre-load caches a global list of integers in the range minus 5 to 256 inclusive.
So what that means is that any time we reference or use an integer in that range Python is going to
use the cached version of that object it's not going to create a new one.
It's going to look it up in its list and say OK I'm going to use this existing one already.
So it's going to reuse that memory address.
And that's what we saw when we took an integer like 10.
I was in that range.
We saw that we were getting shared references when we used 500.
We saw that we were getting different references.
That's because we're outside of that range.
So essentially the integers in the range minus 5 to 256 are singleton objects and we'll get into exactly
what Singleton objects are when we get to the section on object oriented programming.
But basically Singleton objects are classes that can only be instantiated once.
So whenever you try and reinstate initiate them you just get the original version back.
So it's kind of the same thing that's happening here.
Why do this.
Well it's an optimization strategy small integers show up relatively often in our code.
And so Python decides OK I'm going to pre-crash a certain range of integers.
You obviously don't want to precast too many right because now you're starting to incur memory overhead.
This happens at startup so the startup may take too long if you're trying cache too many.
And you know there's a point of diminishing returns but so they decided that minus 5 to 256 was a pretty
good cross-section of intoning.
So now when we write April 10 well Python just has to point to that existing reference for 10 it doesn't
have to create that integer object and creating an integer object does take some work and we'll see
also what the memory overhead is.
Every time we create an integer.
But if we write equals 2:57 while that's outside of the range minus 5 to 256 then we'd be all Python
doesn't use the global list and we'll get a new object created every time.
OK so let's take a look at some code and just see this in practice.
So recall that the Python will create Singleton integer objects out of integers in the range minus 5
to 256.
OK so that's the range.
So if we create a equal to some number in that range let's say 10 and then we also create B and make
it equal to the same value.
Then what's going to happen is that the idea of a is going to be a sort memory address.
And the idea of the is going to be the same.
So the python memory manager basically will point you to that shared reference.
OK so you have the same object being utilized.
That's safe because integers are immutable so we cannot change the value of b by modifying the contents
of the reference right of the object being referenced which means that Acon never change because while
we can never change the object that points to.
So the only way to change a is to change A's reference to something else and changing that on B isn't
going to affect what is referencing.
Just to show you that if we take a equal to minus five and we take be equal to minus five then the memory
address we can do it this way
are the same right.
Memory addresses are the same.
Now the easiest way of comparing memory addresses remember is to use the identity operator is.
So A is B and it tells us yes it is.
It is the same memory address.
And if we take a call to 256 and be equal to 256 then we can see if they have the memory address and
they do what they are able to 2:57 and be equal to 2:57 then A is B will return false.
Right we are no longer using this Singleton collection.
Right.
So the same thing minus 6 and so.
Now remember we can create integers in different ways.
Right.
We have a equal to 10 for example.
Right we can also say B equals int 10 we can declare a new integer object using the constructor.
So we can pass in 10 that way we can also say C is equal to.
And pass in a string.
OK.
And that string that constructor will default to trying to create an integer based turn based on that
string.
If we want to try a different base we could say int and let's do 1 0 1 0 and base 2.
Right.
Which is actually 10 in base 10
actually when we go back and let's make that equal to D.
Right.
So we have a b c and d.
So if we print a we will print a column B common See comedy K they're all 10 and we can now print the
ID of each one ID of AA ID of B idea of C ID of D that is because I'm sure the cell type changed to
marked down.
So I said let's write this code.
So there we go.
All right.
And as you can see the memory address of each of these variables is the same.
So it doesn't matter how we created that because the end result was an integer of value 10.
It basically then looked it up and said hey I've got that already in my list of you know Inter and integers
and there it is.
I'll use that one.
OK.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.